In this demo, I'm going
to show you how to start using volumes.
I'm going to use my kops cluster again.
So I logged in again in my vagrant xenial box,
and first, you will need to create a volume
on alias and, if you're working with kops
then you must have set up the alias tool
because that was one of the prerequisites.
So I'm going to use the alias tool
to create a volume.
I'm going to use alias ec2 create-volume,
and I'm going to create a volume of size 10
in US1a and it's going to be general purpose 2,
which is just an ssd volume.
Make sure that you create your volume
in the same zone that your kubernetes cluster is spelt out.
Otherwise it's not going to work.
This is the volume ID that you need to select.
You need to copy paste this,
and then I'm going to insert this into
my hello world with volume.
So I'm going to replace,
I'm going to use this volume ID,
I'm going to put it right here.
Volume ID in the volume ID.
And this volume ID is going to be attached
to the node that this port is going to run on.
And it's going to be mounted under
slash my volume.
(typing)
Let me first check whether my nodes are running.
I have three nodes running.
And then I'm going to launch this deployment.
Hello world deployment created.
Kubectl get pod.
Container is creating.
It's pulling the image.
And now our container is created.
We have volume here, my volume which is
a Persistent Disk resource in AWS.
AWS Elastic Blockstore with volume ID.
So I should now be able to,
execute something in this pod.
Let me just start bash.
And I should have volume my vol.
Now let me just write something in this my vol
just to see how it works,
I'm going to write test in my vol my vol dot txt.
I'm also going to write test in,
test two, in slash test dot txt.
We have two files,
my vol my vol txt,
and test txt.
And just think about what is going to happen
if this pod crashes.
Cause we wrote something in slash
and we wrote something in the volume.
When those couple go,
well if the node goes,
then the port needs to be rescheduled.
So this pod is running on
the node with this IP address.
So if you want to test what would happen
if the node would be rescheduled,
we could drain a node,
which means we prepare the node to go offline.
So we can say kubectl drain,
and then the node.
And going to start draining the nodes.
Just going to use force here.
So that port is for sure killed.
Then I'm going to kubectl get pod.
And already a new pod is being created.
Say if I describe this one,
describe pod,
and then the new pod.
Then can see that this pod is now attached
to another instance.
Just have to wait a little bit,
til the warnings go away.
And now the volume is attached to this new node.
So what happened is that this volume detached
from the old node,
and now is reattached to the new node.
So our container has been recreated,
but we are still using the same volume.
So let me log in again,
let me open a shell on our new pod.
And if I take a look in my vol, I will see
that I still have my vol txt.
But of course because this is new container,
I don't have test dot txt anymore,
cause test dot txt was not saved in the volume
within the container itself.
And then the pod gets rescheduled,
all the information that has been written
to the container disappears.
So when you have a stateful application
that needs to ride something,
Then you always need to use volumes,
because then your data will be kept even
if the node crashes,
or even if the node needs to be rescheduled.
And this can happen all the time.
Stateful applications you can only use
with volumes or some other mechanism
to save the data.
Not inside the container itself, but using a volume
or using external sources.
In the next lectures,
I will show you how kubernetes can
automatically create those folders for you.
When you're finished, make sure that you remove
this volume again.
So this,
volume needs to be deleted.
Aws, ec2, delete volume with the volume ID.
And then the volume ID.
Of course, when it's not attached anymore,
so you can only do this when it's detached.
So first can do remove,
your pod,
and then if you wait some time you'll be able to detach it.